Add walkthrough blog post and fix favicon (#117)
JabRef/blog.jabref.org: _posts/2025-08-14-walkthrough-and-welcome-tab.md

---
title: Introducing JabRef's New Walkthrough and Welcome Tab
tags: [gsoc, walkthrough, welcome-tab]

> author: Yubo-Cao

Reviewer: you need to add your name to the authors list https://github.com/JabRef/blog.jabref.org/blob/main/_data/authors.yml

---

Hello! I'm [Yubo Cao](https://www.yubo-cao.com/), a [Google Summer of Code (GSoC) student at JabRef](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/myprojects/details/ae6W329p) this year. Today, I'm excited to share with you the new walkthrough and welcome tab features in JabRef.

## Background

> JabRef is a free, open-source reference manager that has been evolving since 2003. Over the years, our community has continuously added new features to help users manage their references more efficiently. However, some of these features can be challenging for new users to discover. That's where the walkthrough and welcome tab come in—to help new users get started with JabRef without needing to pore over the entire documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
JabRef is a free, open-source reference manager that has been evolving since 2003. Over the years, our community has continuously added new features to help users manage their references more efficiently. However, some of these features can be challenging for new users to discover. That's where the walkthrough and welcome tab come in—to help new users get started with JabRef without needing to read through the entire documentation.
```

## What's New?

With these new features, JabRef users can now:

**Access Walkthroughs**: We've added walkthroughs to help new users get started with JabRef. These walkthroughs highlight the controls you need to interact with in a step-by-step manner, reducing the need to visit our [documentation](https://docs.jabref.org/) to get started with any feature you choose.

![Walkthrough Example](../img/walkthrough-example.png)

**Utilize the Enhanced Welcome Tab**: The new welcome tab is more feature-rich compared to the previous version.

- Quick settings in the welcome tab allow you to configure the most common settings with a single click.
- Walkthroughs can be directly opened from the welcome tab, making it easier for new users to get started with JabRef.

![Welcome Tab](../img/welcome-tab.png)

> Additionally, the welcome tab now features a responsive layout that ensures proper display when you organize the JabRef side-by-side with other applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, the welcome tab now features a responsive layout that ensures proper display when you organize JabRef side-by-side with other applications.
```
